JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
As president-elect Trump expands
his team
with new picks, we talk to
Republican Party
spokesman Sean Spicer and look
at how the
presidential bully pulpit is
being redefined.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Wednesday:
Rescuers search under the rubble
for survivors
in Indonesia's Aceh province
after a powerful
earthquake kills nearly 100
people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And when religion
and art collide.
A new Smithsonian exhibit
celebrates the beauty
and mastery of the Qur'an.
MASSUMEH FARHAD, Chief Curator,
Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian
Institution:
It really shifted my perception
of what these
works are, and I'm hoping that
it will also
shift the perception of the
visitors who come
to the museum to see the
exhibition.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: A new flurry
of high-level
announcements today from the
Trump transition.
They include a new ambassador
and a new leader
for small business interests,
and the incoming
president himself has picked up
another honor.
Lisa Desjardins has our report.
LISA DESJARDINS: He didn't
appear in New York's
Trump Tower lobby today, but
president-elect
Donald Trump still made
headlines, as "TIME"
magazine named him its 2016
person of the
year, billing him president of
the divided
states of America.
Meanwhile, the president-elect
made more picks
of his own, announcing he will
nominate Iowa
Governor Terry Branstad as his
ambassador
to China.
Branstad is a Republican and the
longest-serving
governor of Iowa ever.
He was one of the most prominent
establishment
Republicans to support Mr. Trump
in the election,
and he has a longstanding
friendship with
the Chinese president, Xi
Jinping.
Another official announcement,
former wresting
executive Linda McMahon is Mr.
Trump's nominee
to head the Small Business
Administration.
Also today, the Associated Press
and other
outlets reported retired Marine
General John
Kelly is the choice for
secretary of homeland
security.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: Great,
great general.
LISA DESJARDINS: And multiple
outlets also
reported Oklahoma Attorney
General Scott Pruitt
as Mr. Trump's pick to lead the
Environmental
Protection Agency.
Pruitt is known for opposing EPA
climate change
regulations.
DONALD TRUMP: Mad Dog Mattis.
LISA DESJARDINS: All this after
the incoming
commander in chief officially
introduced retired
Marine General James Mattis as
his selection
for secretary of defense at a
rally last night
in Fayetteville, North Carolina.
Mattis would need a waiver from
Congress to
accept the position because he's
been out
of the service less than seven
years.
DONALD TRUMP: What a great guy.
He's going to be incredible.
He will get that waiver, right?
He's going to get that.
Oh, if he didn't get that
waiver, there would
be a lot of angry people.
LISA DESJARDINS: The stop in
North Carolina
is part of a clear ramp-up of
travel for Mr.
Trump.
Tomorrow, he will be in
Columbus, Ohio, to
meet with responders to the Ohio
State campus
attack last week, then a thank
you rally in
Des Moines, Iowa.
Friday, the stops are Baton
Rouge, Louisiana,
to support the Republican Senate
candidate
in a runoff, and another thank
you rally in
Grand Rapids, Michigan.
President-elect Trump said today
he thinks
his biggest remaining pick,
secretary of state,
will come next week.
This morning, he also told "The
Today Show"
he's getting advice from his
predecessor.
DONALD TRUMP: I will say this.
I have now gotten to know
President Obama.
I really like him.
We obviously very much disagree
on certain
policy and certain things, but I
really like
him as a person.
LISA DESJARDINS: And, today, Mr.
Trump met
with the president's first chief
of staff,
Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who
said he argued
for so-called dreamers,
undocumented Americans
brought here as children.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: A
Charleston, South Carolina, jury
heard opening
statements in the trial of
Dylann Roof, the
man charged with murdering nine
black churchgoers.
It happened in June 2015.
Today, a federal prosecutor
declared Roof
had a cold and hateful heart.
The defense conceded Roof's
guilt, and focused
on preventing a death sentence.
Later, a survivor broke down as
she testified
about seeing her son die in the
gunfire.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Authorities in
Tennessee
have charged two juveniles with
setting a
deadly wildfire that roared
through the Great
Smoky Mountains two weeks ago.
Fourteen people died and more
than 1,700 buildings
were damaged or destroyed as
high winds blew
the flames into the Gatlinburg
area.
Prosecutors left open the
possibility that
others could be charged as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Recovery efforts
came to an
end today at the scene of the
deadly warehouse
fire in Oakland, California.
The death toll from the weekend
tragedy stands
at 36.
Investigators have turned their
attention
to a refrigerator as a possible
cause.
The fast-moving fire ripped
through the warehouse,
where a dance party was under
way.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In Indonesia,
the earth
shook before dawn today,
knocking down buildings,
and sending terrified people
into the streets.
At least 97 were killed, with
hundreds more
injured.
It was a picture of desperation,
rescue crews
using bare hands to dig through
twisted wreckage,
while excavators removed heavier
debris.
MAN (through translator): We
estimate the
number of casualties will
continue to rise,
as some of the residents are
still likely
under the rubble of the
buildings.
The search-and-rescue operation
is still under
way.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The quake hit
shortly after
5:00 a.m., registered 6.5, and
was centered
around the northern tip of Aceh
province on
Sumatra Island.
But it was too shallow to
trigger a tsunami.
Still, it was all too
reminiscent of the far
more powerful quake and tsunami
that devastated
the same region in 2004, killing
more than
100,000 people in Aceh alone.
That disaster prompted efforts
to improve
warnings and readiness.
But Kanupriya Kapoor with
Reuters said the
quake-prone country still has a
long way to
go.
She spoke to us via Skype from
Jakarta.
KANUPRIYA KAPOOR, Reuters: If I
were to speak
to the readiness of these
communities, the
preparedness to deal with a
quake, I wouldn't
be surprised if they aren't as
prepared, if,
you know, structures in this
area, you know,
were clearly not built to
withstand even a
6.5-magnitude earthquake.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Indonesia's
disaster agency
estimates some 245 buildings,
including 14
mosques, were either seriously
damaged or
destroyed in today's quake,
leaving thousands
of people homeless.
The Indonesian government has
officially declared
a two-week state of emergency in
Aceh.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the mountains
of Northern
Pakistan, no one survived an
airplane crash
today.
The head of Pakistan
International Airlines
says 48 people were on board.
Witnesses said the plane burst
into flames
and went down about 50 miles
outside Islamabad.
Junaid Jamshed, a well-known
Pakistani-singer-turned-evangeli
cal-Muslim-cleric,
was among those who perished.
The cause of the crash is under
investigation.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The U.S. and
five other
Western nations are calling for
a new cease-fire
in Aleppo, Syria, in a bid to
get civilians
out.
They also accused Russia today
of blocking
efforts to end the bloodshed.
Meanwhile, Syrian government
troops and their
allies pushed deeper into
Eastern Aleppo.
They now control about 75
percent of what
was the rebel-held area of the
city.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, a bipartisan
bill to speed federal drug
approvals and bolster
research overwhelmingly passed
the Senate
today.
President Obama promised to sign
the $6 billion
measure.
It includes funding for Vice
President Biden's
Moonshot effort to find a cure
for cancer
and for a stepped-up campaign to
fight opioid
abuse.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Senators also
paid tribute
today to Vice President Biden.
He served there for 36 years
representing
Delaware.
He was back today in his
official role as
president of the Senate,
listening as lawmakers
praised him for compassion,
strength and humor.
And Maryland Senator Barbara
Mikulski gave
her farewell speech after
serving 30 years.
That makes her the longest
serving female
senator ever.
SEN.
BARBARA MIKULSKI (D), Maryland:
Though I was
the first Democratic woman, I
wanted to be
the first of many.
I wanted to help women get
elected to the
Senate and do what I could to be
able to help
them to do that.
It has been just wonderful to
see that now
there are over -- there are 20
women that
are currently serving in the
United States
Senate.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Mikulski also
served 10
years in the House before coming
to the Senate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wall Street
soared today on
mounting expectations of faster
growth.
The Dow Jones industrial average
reached another
record, gaining nearly 300
points to close
at 19549.
The Nasdaq rose 60 points, and
the S&P 500
added 29, for its own record
close.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And thousands
of people
converged on Pearl Harbor today,
marking 75
years since the Japanese attack
that brought
the United States into World War
II.
Elderly survivors highlighted
the crowd that
gathered across the harbor from
where the
battleship Arizona sank.
They observed a moment of
silence and then
listened to tributes to all
those killed on
December 7, 1941.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the GOP's
Sean Spicer talks about Donald
Trump's latest
appointments; the
president-elect's unconventional
methods of communicating
directly with the
American people; the first woman
to win baseball's
prestigious sportswriting award;
and much
more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We get the view
from Trump
Tower now on the
president-elect's transition
from Sean Spicer.
He's spokesman for the
Republican National
Committee.
Sean Spicer, welcome back to the
"NewsHour."
Let me start with some of the
announcements
already made today just in the
last hour or
so.
Linda McMahon, with the
professional wrestling
organization, she and her
husband made a huge
success of that, appointed to
run the Small
Business Administration.
This now makes, I think, the
fourth or fifth
billionaire appointed to the
Trump Cabinet.
What are we to make of this?
What are ordinary Americans to
make of this?
SEAN SPICER, Communications
Director, Republican
National Committee: I think you
look at the
people, like Linda McMahon.
She started a company with 13
people.
She ended up with 800.
What I think Donald Trump has
shown is that
he wants to surround himself
with people who
are successful, who understand
how to make
change and make things happen.
Americans want more jobs.
They want to put America first.
They want American businesses,
they want American
families to be put first and
foremost.
And I think what Donald Trump is
showing:
I'm going to get the best, most
qualified,
most successful people to be
part of a Trump-Pence
administration, because the one
thing that
has ended, Judy, is business as
usual in Washington,
D.C.
You look at someone like Linda
McMahon, who
not only built an unbelievably
successful
business, but then went on to
mentor young
women and others to help them
grow and flourish.
And I think that's what we want.
We want people who have a track
record of
success to come into Washington,
to shake
things up, and get the country
back on track,
to get jobs moving, to fix a
health care system
that is not working.
But all of those things that
people are talking
about that they want, he is
surrounding himself
with successful people that are
going to get
the job done.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, there is
another pick
being confirmed by news
organizations, not
yet by the Trump transition, and
that is to
run the Environmental Protection
Agency, the
EPA, Scott Pruitt, the attorney
general of
the state of Oklahoma.
The environmental community is
already up
in arms, reacting very
negatively to this,
saying he is not only a climate
change denier,
that he's very, very close to
the fossil fuel
industry.
SEAN SPICER: OK, well, look,
here's what I
would argue.
First of all, no announcement
has been made
on that position.
Second of all, everybody that
comes into a
Trump-Pence administration, from
the lowest
to the highest person in the
administration,
is here to carry out Donald
Trump's vision
and agenda and to get the things
that he wants
done accomplished.
So, you know, regardless of what
somebody's
personal positions are, what
they're signing
on to is Donald Trump's vision,
his agenda,
his philosophy, and the things
that he wants
to succeed at.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, the
environmental community
shouldn't read this as somebody
who is -- doesn't
believe in anything,
essentially, in their
agenda being put in charge of
the agency that's
supposed to look after the
environment?
SEAN SPICER: Well, look, I think
that there's
a big difference between
environmentalists
on the left and people who care
about the
environment.
And I know that sounds like a
distinction,
but the reality is, is that, you
know, two
of Donald Trump's kids, Eric and
Don Jr.,
are very avid hunters.
They understand and appreciate
the wilderness
and the outdoors.
They love to be out there.
But I think that there's a big
difference
between appreciating and wanting
to preserve
and protect the environment,
something -- whether
it's clean water or clean air,
something that
we all cherish, or the agenda
pushed by the
far left.
And there is a big difference.
And so I think that there's --
it is a very
big difference to care about
whether or not
we're toting to the agenda of
the far extreme
left that is a job-killing,
regulation-type
agenda that wants to step out of
-- put businesses
out of business, or people who
actually care
about the environment and whose
goal is clean
air, clean water, making sure
that we preserve
our natural resources and things
like that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Two other
appointments I want
to ask you about, one was
announced, the ambassador
to China, the governor of Iowa,
Terry Branstad.
We know Mr. Trump has stressed,
I think what
you have to say, is a get-tough
with China
approach, is one way to describe
it.
And today, though, he is
emphasizing someone
who has a close personal
relationship with
the leader of China.
Is he undermining the get-tough
message somehow
with this?
SEAN SPICER: No, I think what
Mr. Trump understands
is, he's been successful at
business through
negotiation and relationship.
He understands how to get what
he wants, how
to advance a goal.
And what Terry Branstad brings
to it this,
he's the longest serving
governor in the United
States.
He has a huge, extensive
relationship with
the president of China,
something that he
can leverage to make sure that
it is not -- it
starts that relationship off on
a good foot,
to make sure that China
understands that we
have an agenda of putting
American workers
first.
That's going to be the agenda
here.
But it allows that relationship
to start from
the beginning, as opposed to
having a get-to-know-you
phase.
They have a long, extensive
relationship,
and that's going to benefit the
United States
to advance the Donald Trump
agenda and make
sure that America gets back some
of that -- some
of those jobs and some of that
manufacturing
that has gone to China.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just quickly,
another appointment,
or potential appointment I want
to ask about
-- again, news organizations
have this -- and
that is retired General John
Kelly to run
the Department of Homeland
Security.
If he's named, he would be the
third general
to play a major role in this
administration,
heading the third largest
department in the
federal government.
What is Mr. Trump saying by
naming all these
top military -- people with top
military roles?
SEAN SPICER: Well, first of all,
no announcement's
been made.
Second, General Kelly is an
outstanding public
servant, somebody who
understands the threats
that we face and knows how to
tackle them
and keep America, you know, our
homeland,
safe.
He would be an excellent choice
if Mr. Trump
eventually chooses him.
But I think most importantly,
again, you're
talking about 4,000 or 5,000
jobs.
Yes, he's focused on these two
and potentially
third top-ranking military
officials, but
he's also looked to successful
businessmen,
Governor Branstad, as you just
mentioned,
Governor -- excuse me -- Linda
McMahon, a
successful businesswoman.
This is a very, very broad
group, diverse
group of high-quality,
high-caliber people
who, in their own respective
fields, whether
it's academia, business, or
government, have
shown that they know how to get
the job done.
And that's what Donald Trump
wants, is people
who understand how to be
successful, how to
move this country in the right
direction,
how to lift up the American
worker and put
America first.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to ask you
about something
that first lady Michelle Obama
is saying today.
She said in an interview she
stands by what
-- the criticism she made of Mr.
Trump on
the campaign trail, but she
said, like her
husband, she's prepared to help
him as he
transitions.
She said, "We want him to be
successful."
My question to you is, after the
conversations
Mr. Trump has had with President
Obama, is
he prepared, in any way, to
apologize or pull
back the many, many tough
criticisms he made
of President Obama, in effect
saying he's
harmed this country by his
leadership?
SEAN SPICER: Well, I think
there's a lot of
things that's said on the
campaign trail in
the heat of a political
campaign.
President Obama said very
similar things about
Mr. Trump.
But I think since election
night, Mr. Trump
extended that olive branch,
talked about uniting
this country, bringing us all
together and
moving forward as Americans to
move the country
forward and lift up everybody.
They have had great meetings.
They have developed a great
relationship.
He said earlier today he
continues to enjoy
the president's counsel and has
grown to really
respect the job that he has and
the toughness
of it, his commitment and love
for this country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, Sean
Spicer, does
Mr. Trump stand by his tweet of
a couple of
days ago that three million
votes cast in
this election were cast
illegally, and, if
so, what does he base that on?
SEAN SPICER: Of course he does.
And that's based off several
academic reports
that show the number of people.
If you extrapolate the
percentages in the
reports, come out to about that
much.
So, you know, there are a lot of
reports that
point to that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we know
there's a dispute
about many of them, but more
time to talk
about that later on.
Sean Spicer, thank you very
much.
SEAN SPICER: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And later in the
program, we
will explore president-elect
Trump's relationship
with the news media.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The movie
industry has its
Oscars, the music world the
Grammys, and,
sure, there are Nobel Prizes in
science, but
the world of science would like
to connect
with the popular culture.
This weekend, there were some
notable awards
in that field held in a
makeshift hangar at
NASA Ames Research Center in
Silicon Valley,
and that's the focus of our
weekly segment
about the Leading Edge of
science and technology.
Miles O'Brien is here to tell us
a little
bit more about who won and for
what achievements.
So -- but what is this and who's
behind it?
MILES O'BRIEN: Hari, it's called
the Breakthrough
Prizes.
They were founded five years ago
by a few
Silicon Valley moguls.
They wanted to recognize
scientists with the
largest cash prizes in science,
glitzy gala,
big-name stars from tech and
entertainment.
The scientific rock stars were
honored by
some Hollywood celebrities,
Morgan Freeman,
Alicia Keys, Jeremy Irons, Black
Eyed Peas
star Will.i.am, who probably put
it best.
WILL.I.AM, Musician: When
somebody graduates
and plays basketball from the
NBA who just
came from UCLA, there's a show
about that.
There's a show called the draft.
And people tune in.
But when someone graduates from
MIT and then
ends up working at Google,
nobody knows.
So I think, in popular culture,
like, we do
a very poor job celebrating the
right things.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, I
see three different
categories here, fundamental
physics, life
sciences, and math.
Let's start with life sciences.
MILES O'BRIEN: Life sciences is
the largest
of the five topics for
recipients.
Each person or awardee group
gets a $3 million
prize for major contributions to
the understanding
of the inner workings of life.
Now, for example, Stephen
Elledge, a scientist
at Harvard and he's affiliated
with the Howard
Hughes Medical Institute as
well, was recognized
for his research into how DNA
detects when
it is damaged.
Here he is explaining it.
STEPHEN ELLEDGE, Harvard Medical
School: DNA
has this incredible ability to
sense its own
integrity.
It's a molecule, but it knows
when it's damaged.
And it has built a signaling
apparatus that's
a little bit like sort of a
radio station.
It sends out signals when
there's a problem
and calls in the troops and it
organizes everything.
So it's really about
communication inside
the cell.
MILES O'BRIEN: This is key
because disruptions
of this mechanism are linked to
cancer, and
there are already some cancer
treatments being
implemented that are based on
this research.
So it's very exciting, Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
there was a special
category -- award in the
category of physics.
Tell us about it.
MILES O'BRIEN: Yes, physics is
always interesting.
There were some awards which got
into string
theory, which would be too hard
to explain
in the time we have.
But this one is very
interesting.
And you have about it, the Laser
Interferometer
Gravitational-Wave Observatory,
or LIGO.
It earned a special prize in
fundamental physics.
What is LIGO?
Well, this 1,000-plus-member
team will be
splitting that $3 million prize
for their
detection of gravity waves
caused by the merging
two of black holes.
LIGO uses lasers to precisely
measure the
position of mirrors separated
from each other
by about 2.5 miles.
Now, in addition, it takes these
measurements
at two locations about 1,900
miles apart,
one in Louisiana, one in the
state of Washington.
LIGO is so sensitive, it
actually measures
the compressing and stretching
of space itself.
It is the most precise measuring
device ever
built.
It can detect a disturbance of
-- now, listen
to this -- one part in 1,000
billion billion,
or something like 1/1,000 of the
diameter
of a proton.
That is hard to -- it's
mind-boggling.
All right?
We're deep in the quantum world
here.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, we
don't talk
about math that much, but what
about the math
prize?
MILES O'BRIEN: Yes.
I know folks might have some
flashbacks to
middle school right now, but
this is interesting.
Jean Bourgain of Princeton was
awarded for
contributions to
high-dimensional geometry
and some other branches of that.
Now, his main innovation was
expanding the
Fourier analysis, which I know
you know well,
Hari.
It's a method to break down
messy signals
into basic repeated components
like a sine
or cosine graph you might
remember from high
school.
Now, this makes it easier to
understand the
underlying structures of complex
mathematical
situations, both physical and
theoretical.
And I think we better to end it
there, because
it's going to get deep very
quickly.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I remember the
tension in
my geometry classes were whether
or not you
should have those Texas
Instruments calculators.
Oh, it's cheating.
You should do these sine graphs
yourselves.
Now, speaking of life back in
the old days,
there are also prizes for
younger scientists.
What were they getting prizes
for?
MILES O'BRIEN: Yes.
And this is exciting stuff.
Two high school students, Deanna
See from
Singapore and Antonella Masini
from Peru,
also won the Breakthrough Junior
Challenge.
It's a competition in which
students from
around the world submitted
videos explaining
some very tough scientific
concepts, probably
better than I am right now.
Deanna chose antibiotic
resistance in bacteria.
And Antonella discussed quantum
entanglement
-- quantum entanglement, not bad
for a high
schooler.
So, what does the award mean to
her?
Fewer entanglements with
scholarships and
student loans.
Let's listen.
ANTONELLA MASINI, Breakthrough
Junior Challenge
Winner: I have a little
economical problems
at home.
And now with this prize, I can
choose any
school that I want, any college
that I want.
And it's unbelievable.
I'm really grateful -- grateful
for this opportunity.
And will never forget it.
MILES O'BRIEN: And I have a
feeling, Hari,
we won't forget her either.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Miles, we were
such slackers
compared to just those two kids,
much less
probably all the kids that were
nominated
there.
MILES O'BRIEN: It's why we're
here.
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right.
Thank you, Miles O'Brien,
joining us from
Boston tonight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
art of the
Qur'an, a new exhibit featuring
ancient manuscripts;
and a historic recording from
the day that
lived in infamy.
But first: a pioneer in the
traditionally
male-dominated world of
sportswriting.
Claire Smith has been covering
baseball for
more than four decades.
She was the first
African-American female
reporter to cover the game for a
newspaper.
Working for The New York Times,
The Philadelphia
Inquirer, and The Hartford
Courant during
her career.
She's now with ESPN.
And, yesterday, she was awarded
the top honor
for a baseball writer.
Smith is the first woman to get
that prize
from the Baseball Writers
Association of America.
And she joins me now from
covering baseball's
winter meetings in Oxon Hill,
Maryland, where
off-season trades and other
business is being
discussed.
Claire Smith, congratulations.
And what does this mean to you?
CLAIRE SMITH, Sportswriter,
ESPN: It means
the world.
I look around this hotel lobby,
I see my peers
out there hard at work.
I see so many that I watched
grow up in the
industry, so many that I have
worked with
for three-plus decades.
And I -- they chose me.
They chose me to be the 68th
winner of this
award.
And previous winners were named
Grantland
Rice, Damon Runyon, Red Smith,
Wendell Smith,
Sam Lacy.
And they said, you are the 68th
winner, the
first female, the first
African-American female.
It's so humbling.
I'm overwhelmed.
I really am.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why baseball?
Why did you want to write about
and cover
baseball?
CLAIRE SMITH: Two words: Jackie
Robinson.
I was a child when my mother
told me that
story.
And in those two words, I
thought, this is
a great country.
Anything is possible.
And within this sport, this
sport taught this
country how to grow up and move
on.
It integrated 20-some years
before the United
States of America.
I was in elementary school when
the nuns at
Saint James took a third-grade
class down
to the church in the basement of
that Elkins
Park, Pennsylvania, school, and
showed us
"The Jackie Robinson Story."
And Ruby Dee as Mrs. Rachel
Robinson, and
Jackie Robinson as Jackie
Robinson, they took
my breath away.
They reminded me of my parents,
young and
proud.
And I wanted to know more about
this couple
and that game and that man named
Branch Rickey.
I loved storytelling.
My parents bought me an old
Olympia typewriter
and gave me paper as a child, a
preteen.
I loved pecking on that.
But that story captured my
imagination, and
I still wear Jackie's number a
lot.
I loved the idea of baseball and
what it did
for this country, what Jackie
and the Dodgers
did.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It is so
inspiring.
But once you got into writing
about and covering
baseball, as a woman, you found
out it wasn't
as easy as maybe you might have
thought going
in?
I mean, I'm particularly
interested in what
happened in 1984.
CLAIRE SMITH: Well, Judy, I had
a long career
with one bad day.
And that was in 1984 in the
postseason, Padres
at Cubs, a playoff game.
And I was pushed out, physically
pushed out
of the clubhouse because the
Padres didn't
adhere to the National League's
edict that
the National League controlled
the clubhouses
once the postseason started.
I had so many people jump to my
defense, not
necessarily the Padres club, but
Padres player,
first baseman Steve Garvey, who
left the clubhouse
to make sure that I had quotes,
so I could
do my job.
And he reminded me, as I started
to falter,
that he would stay in that damp,
small area
in Wrigley Field while I pulled
myself together.
He would stay as long as I
needed for him
to stay.
But he said, "But you have a job
to do."
And he -- that one phrase made
me pull myself
together and do my job.
My peers came to my defense.
And the commissioner, Peter
Ueberroth, who
was in his first week in office,
the next
day passed an edict: All
credentialed -- properly
credentialed reporters, no
matter gender,
race, religion, whatever planet
they came
from, get access in Major League
Baseball.
He couldn't believe that it
really hadn't
happened before.
But on his watch, from that day
forward, it
was going to happen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you were not
deterred,
and you have kept on ever since
then.
Has it been harder, though, as
an African-American?
Or have you just not looked back
and thought
about that since then?
CLAIRE SMITH: It was no contest.
It was harder because of gender
than race.
I have always said that, because
a sport had
-- at that time had a much
larger representation
of African-Americans in uniform,
and still
to this day is a very diverse
sport, albeit
more Latin American players of
color than
African-Americans of color, it
would be very
hard to be overtly racist
towards anyone in
a clubhouse.
However, it's still very easy to
be an idiot.
(LAUGHTER)
CLAIRE SMITH: It might not be in
a club's
best interest to push people out
because of
gender, because the
commissioner's office
will come down on you very hard,
but that
doesn't stop a player from being
obscene,
from being a degenerate, from
just being a
jerk.
And that happens occasionally,
sadly.
If a woman is isolated in a town
where a team
has a laissez-faire attitude, it
makes it
very difficult.
I was very lucky.
I covered a team that was
aggressive in its
approach.
The Yankees were very proud to
say that none
of that happened in the
clubhouse.
By the time I came along, the
Yankees were
just ferocious in policing their
own clubhouse,
from the players on up.
I had friends who were severely
scarred by
incidents elsewhere in the
country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wow.
Well, I hope that a lot of young
women who
are thinking about going into
sportswriting
and sports news are watching
this and being
inspired by it.
Claire Smith...
CLAIRE SMITH: Well, thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Claire Smith,
congratulations.
CLAIRE SMITH: Thank so much,
Judy.
I appreciate that.
Thank you very much.
HARI SREENIVASAN: One thing
that's become
clear since the election is the
very different
approach president-elect Trump
is taking toward
dealing with the media and his
efforts to
talk to the American public more
directly.
To start, let's look at the last
24 hours.
It was a most unusual appearance
for a man
whose unpredictability is now
signature.
President-elect Trump showed up
unannounced
in the lobby of his Manhattan
skyscraper yesterday.
Less than an hour earlier, he
tweeted that
costs for a new Air Force One
were out of
control, and said the order
should be canceled.
He spoke to journalists who've
gathered in
the Trump Tower entrance for
weeks.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: It is going
to be over $4 billion for Air
Force One program.
And I think it is ridiculous.
I think Boeing is doing a little
bit of a
number.
We want Boeing to make a lot of
money, but
not that much money.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The White
House later questioned
the figure Mr. Trump cited.
The president-elect later
appeared in the
lobby again to announce an
investment by a
Japanese tech mogul.
Since his stunning election
night upset, Mr.
Trump hasn't held a single
formal press conference.
Instead, he's communicated with
the public
directly, often 140 characters
at a time.
He called the protesters who
took to the streets
immediately after his election
-- quote -- "very
unfair."
He said burning the American
flag, which is
protected under the First
Amendment, should
be punishable by loss of
citizenship or a
year in jail.
He has made announcements about
the plans
for his business interests.
Late last month, he challenged
the results
of the popular vote with a false
claim that
-- quote -- "millions of people
voted illegally."
He even used the platform to
float names for
potential Cabinet picks, like
Dr. Ben Carson
as the head of Housing and Urban
Development.
In a video statement released on
Twitter and
YouTube, Mr. Trump laid out
plans for his
first 100 days in office.
DONALD TRUMP: My agenda will be
based on a
simple core principle: putting
America first.
Whether it's producing steel,
building cars,
or curing disease, I want the
next generation
of production and innovation to
happen right
here, on our great homeland,
America.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The
president-elect's choice
to control his own public
communication is
driven, at least in part, by his
open disdain
for the mainstream media.
On Monday, he tweeted: "If the
press would
cover me accurately and
honorably, I would
have far less reason to tweet.
Sadly, I don't know if that will
ever happen."
To be sure, past administrations
have had
their disagreements and even
hostile relationships
with the press.
During his two terms, President
Obama has,
on occasion, used his social
media channels
to circumvent reporters.
But no leader has taken to such
platforms
like Mr. Trump.
Last week, during a
post-election review at
Harvard, Mr. Trump's former
campaign manager,
Corey Lewandowski, spoke about
how the president-elect
sees the press.
COREY LEWANDOWSKI, Former Trump
Campaign Manager:
Donald Trump understands the
media and he
understands the American
electorate and he
understands how to drive a
message.
However, Donald Trump also has
the ability
to bypass the mainstream media
by going directly
to social media.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The
president-elect did
hold an off-the-record meeting
with television
anchors and executives last
month and on-the-record
conversations with The New York
Times and
Wall Street Journal, but he has
also repeatedly
traveled without notifying the
press pool
assigned to cover him.
That's led reporters to voice
concerns about
a lack of access.
Mr. Trump is, however, expected
to hold his
first press conference as
president-elect
next Thursday.
We take a broader look at the
president-elect's
unprecedented relationship with
the press
and unique communication style
with Micheline
Maynard, a veteran journalist
who is covering
Trump and the media for
Forbes.com.
Micki Maynard, this isn't the
first time the
president, any president has
wanted to go
talk directly to the people or
go around the
pesky press in the middle.
What's so different about this?
MICHELINE MAYNARD, Forbes: Well,
I think what's
so different about this is the
unpredictability,
and also the fact, you know,
with many presidents,
you could just take -- if they
had a tweet
-- this is really our first
tweeting president
-- president-elect.
Mr. Obama tweets a little bit,
but it's fairly
structured.
This is not structured at all.
You almost have to take the
information as
the starting point, because you
can't simply
repeat what he's tweeted.
You have to give it a little bit
of context.
So, you were talking about the
Boeing situation
and the over-$4 billion number.
Well, those of us who cover
aviation who have
kept track of the Air Force One
replacement
program had never heard a number
like $4 billion.
And the GAO, the General
Accounting Office,
had never even said that the
program would
be $4 billion.
So it's a little bit of a
puzzlement where
some of this information is
coming from.
But it does at least give you
something to
go on.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So how do
newsrooms decide
where to put their resources,
chase down the
fact behind every tweet, or
figure out what
the policy will actually be and
what the actual
impact on Americans will be?
MICHELINE MAYNARD: The
interesting thing about
Mr. Trump's tweets is that
they're often in
response to a news story that he
doesn't like.
So, the Boeing tweet in
particular came a
little while after The Chicago
Tribune ran
a story quoting the CEO of
Boeing as saying
he was a bit concerned about
trade policy
under the new Trump
administration.
So, it's almost like -- I don't
know how you
guess which company he might
criticize next.
But it's almost as if you have
to write the
tweet down on one side of a
ledger and then
go look for a link to the story
on the other
side of the ledger and see where
the mesh
comes in.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There also
seems to be a
gap inside the newsrooms, the
political reporters
on one side and the business
reporters on
the other side not necessarily
seeing the
connections.
MICHELINE MAYNARD: Right.
They're two different
specialties.
So, business journalists, like
myself, we
spend years learning how the
Securities and
Exchange Commission works.
We take classes in business
journalism.
Political reporters probably
take political
science classes, spend years in
Washington
or in their local state
governments.
The two don't cross that often.
Sometimes, they do.
We have great publications like
The Wall Street
Journal and The New York Times,
where you
have politically savvy business
reporters,
and vice versa.
But it's two separate sets of
DNA.
And now the challenge for
newsrooms will be
to school reporters who are
trained in politics
in business, and school business
reporters
to look for the politics in
whatever Mr. Trump
does.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Inherently, is
anything
that comes out of a president's
mouth automatically
newsworthy?
If he wants to say a tweet like
the flag-burning
one, where he's essentially
challenging the
constitutionality of how we
express ourselves,
isn't that newsworthy, in and of
itself, or
is someone making an editorial
decision, saying,
well, this is a distraction and
we shouldn't
put resources on it?
MICHELINE MAYNARD: Well, so far,
I haven't
seen anyone not repeat the
tweets.
Because he's the
president-elect, because
everybody is looking for clues
about what
kind of president he will be,
anything he
says right now is newsworthy.
But I am watching news
organizations that
just repeat it like they're
stenographers,
and news organizations that say,
wait a minute,
the flag-burning thing, you
know, we're constitutionally
protected if we want to burn the
flag.
So I'm looking for people giving
the right
context to their audiences,
whether it's on
the air, in print, or on social
media.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Some of the
complaints about
limited access, about the
traveling press
pool or not so many press
conferences, I mean,
some of that is a violation of
tradition or
it's personnel preference, but
how does it
actually matter in the
day-to-day coverage
of the presidency?
Why is that important for the
public to have
and to know?
MICHELINE MAYNARD: Well, right
after Mr. Trump
was elected, he went to
Washington, and he
left the pool that was following
him behind.
Then he went to dinner, and he
left the pool
that was following him behind.
In fact, those reporters had
been told that
there was a lid on movement for
the night.
That means that he's not going
to do anything
newsworthy.
And, in fact, he went out for
dinner with
his family.
I don't know how newsworthy that
was, but
people have made the point that
we had the
9/11 attacks, people needed to
know where
President Bush was.
President Reagan, sadly, there
was an assassination
attempt, and the pool needed to
know what
was going on with that, and on
and on.
So we have certainly had
instances in our
history where unexpected events
happened,
and a group of reporters,
broadcast, print,
now digital, photographers
needed to be there.
So the pool is important.
But I think we're seeing that
Mr. Trump is
either not aware of traditions
or has his
own opinion about them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Micheline Maynard,
I'm sure we will have more
conversations about
this in the future.
Thanks so much.
MICHELINE MAYNARD: Thank you for
having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the charged
atmosphere at
this time around the role of
Muslims in America
comes what is billed as the
first major exhibition
on in the United States on the
Qur'an.
Jeffrey Brown reports.
MASSUMEH FARHAD, Chief Curator,
Arthur M.
Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian
Institution:
This is one of the great
highlights of the
exhibition.
It's a Qur'an from the early
14th century,
from about 1330, signed by a
great master.
JEFFREY BROWN: Signed?
MASSUMEH FARHAD: Signed.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
A holy book, as a work of art,
the Qur'an,
sacred to some 1.6 billion
Muslims around
the world.
A new exhibition at the
Smithsonian Institution's
Sackler Gallery in Washington,
D.C., presents
68 of the most important and
exquisite Qur'ans
ever produced.
Dating from the late 7th to
early 17 centuries,
they come from many parts of the
Islamic world
and are part of the collection
of the Museum
of Turkish and Islamic Arts in
Istanbul.
That's where Sackler chief
curator Massumeh
Farhad first saw them.
MASSUMEH FARHAD: I realized that
these were
true works of art, that every
single one of
them was astounding in its sort
of mastery
of calligraphy, of the styles,
and also of
the scale of the works.
And that is something that, to
me, was very
important, and motivated me in
trying to organize
this exhibition, because I
thought it really
shifted my perception of what
these works
are.
And I'm hoping that it will also
shift the
perception of the visitors who
come to the
museum to see the exhibition.
JEFFREY BROWN: For Muslims, the
Qur'an is
a divine text, a series of
revelations transmitted
from the angel Gabriel to the
Prophet Mohammed
between 610 and 632.
It includes references to
earlier figures,
including Abraham, Moses and
Jesus.
The term itself means
recitation.
The Qur'an stems from an oral
tradition.
But the text was written down
and codified
in a fixed form not long after
the death of
Mohammed.
Maria Dakake teaches Islamic
religious thought
and history at George Mason
University.
MARIA DAKAKE, George Mason
University: One
of the things that is rather
striking about
the Qur'an when people read it
for the first
time is that it often takes the
form of direct
address.
So, it will say sometimes, oh,
you who believe.
Sometimes, it will address all
human beings,
oh, humankind.
It is a series of moral
exhortations, exhortations
to virtue.
It includes many stories of
prophets before
the time of Mohammed.
It is an attempt to grab the
listener, or
grab the reader, to wake them
up, to make
them think about their life,
about the world
around them.
It's a lot of passages with
rhetorical sentences,
right?
Did you not consider this?
Didn't you think about this?
How did you get here?
JEFFREY BROWN: The exhibition
includes furniture,
stands to hold manuscripts, and
chests to
store them.
Many of these Qur'ans were
originally commissioned
and donated or collected by
rulers.
Early manuscripts, on parchment,
feature plain
ink and simple designs.
Later, artists and calligraphers
developed
ever more elaborate and ornate
script, illumination,
and geometric patterns, in light
of Islam's
proscription against figurative
images, to
make each manuscript a singular
work.
MASSUMEH FARHAD: It's how they
sort of use
their individuality is really
quite remarkable.
And the greater master, the
better they can
sort of manipulate the style
without breaking
the rules, because you could not
break the
rules of a particular style of
calligraphy,
but you could sort of stretch
them, and sort
of introduce your own sort of
touch to a particular
style or a particular type of
writing.
JEFFREY BROWN: Some of these
masters are well
known to scholars, like the
maker of this
Qur'an, Abdullah Sayrafi, who
spent most of
his life in Tabriz in
Northwestern Iran.
MASSUMEH FARHAD: What is
remarkable about
Abdullah Sayrafi is the fact
that he was able
to write in more than one style
of calligraphy,
because, usually, most
calligraphers specialized
in one style and one particular
size alone.
It was clearly a Qur'an that was
meant for
display.
It is so lavish in its use of
both illumination,
in terms of that very rich black
ink, the
fact that every gold line is
outlined in black.
I mean, this is a visual feast,
and it's supposed
to be viewed and looked at.
So, it was meant as a display
copy.
JEFFREY BROWN: How long would it
take to do
something like this?
MASSUMEH FARHAD: Many years.
JEFFREY BROWN: Years for each
one?
MASSUMEH FARHAD: For each one.
JEFFREY BROWN: Even amid a
highly contentious
and politicized atmosphere today
concerning
Muslims in America, the curators
say this
exhibition was long in the
works, and the
timing is coincidental.
For her part, Maria Dakake hopes
it will shine
a different kind of spotlight on
Islam and
the Qur'an.
MARIA DAKAKE: You will hear
sometimes Islamophobic
comments about Islam.
And they will say, well, you
know, why would
I want to know anything about
this text?
I see what kinds of things it
produces, right?
It produces people who behave in
these violent
ways or something like that.
But when you come here, you see
the larger
reality of what it produced,
right?
It produced beauty.
It produced scientific inquiry.
It inspired literary endeavors.
And in a time of Islamophobia, I
think what's
so valuable about this
collection is to see
the kind of artistic elements,
the beauty
that the Qur'an really brought.
JEFFREY BROWN: The Art of the
Qur'an is on
exhibition through February.
From the Sackler Gallery in
Washington, D.C.,
I'm Jeffrey Brown for the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now a perspective
on the benefits
of learning and speaking a
foreign language.
Lauren Collins is a
correspondent for "The
New Yorker" magazine, and she
brings us the
latest installment in our series
IMHO: In
My Humble Opinion.
LAUREN COLLINS, "The New
Yorker": (SPEAKING
FRENCH)
What I just said is that, five
years ago,
I didn't speak a word of French.
And why would I have?
I was born and raised in a small
town in North
Carolina.
In high school, I took Spanish,
and like a
lot of people who take high
school Spanish,
I failed to retain much more
than hola and
gracias and habla English?
I guess at the time, it didn't
seem all that
important.
But I have come to believe that
learning a
foreign language is a quietly
revolutionary
act and that there's never been
a better time
to do it.
My French revolution started
when I met a
man named Olivier at a party.
Besides the fact that we were
both living
in London, we had exactly zero
in common,
but somehow we got to talking
and neither
of us wanted to stop.
Olivier spoke beautiful English,
so it wasn't
a big deal that I didn't speak
his language.
But then things got serious, and
we got married.
And I told his mother I had
given birth to
a coffee machine.
And we moved to French-speaking
Switzerland,
and eventually it became clear
that I was
going to have to learn French.
I signed up for an intensive
class.
My fellow students came from all
over the
world, Germany, Argentina,
Japan.
The funny thing about French
classes, they're
the one place that, by
definition, you're
never going to find someone who
speaks French.
But I kept at it.
We all did.
And, very slowly, I found myself
getting the
hang of things.
One day, something clicked, and
I heard my
husband's voice for the first
time.
There are so many advantages to
learning a
language.
Being bilingual improves your
memory.
And several studies have
suggested that it
may even stave off Alzheimer's
and dementia.
But, for me, most incredible
thing was being
all of a sudden privy to a
parallel world
I hadn't even known existed, a
world in which
there was a word for a person
who got cold
easily, where a man's shirt was
feminine,
but a woman's shirt was
masculine, where there
wasn't just one past tense, but
two.
Each time, I had to decide
whether a person
was a vous or a tu, an
acquaintance or an
intimate, which is to say
basically every
time I encountered someone.
I felt my boundaries shifting,
my relationships
being recategorized into public
and private.
What if, in this moment of
rising intolerance,
nationalism and xenophobia, we
could all put
ourselves in another person's
tongue?
When you learn a language, you
benefit not
only yourself, but also society.
Botching conjugations and
brandishing your
ridiculous accent, you develop
empathy.
You start to see that the world
looks different,
depending on where you stand and
what you
speak.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now to our
"NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye,
that might
be of interest to you, too.
As we noted earlier, today marks
the 75th
anniversary of Japan's surprise
attack on
Pearl Harbor.
The ensuing battle claimed the
lives of more
than 2,400 Americans, and
triggered U.S. involvement
in World War II.
An unknown NBC reporter in
Honolulu spoke
by telephone that day in a
dispatch that was
broadcast live across the
nation.
Here's an excerpt:
REPORTER: One, two, three, four.
Hello, NBC.
This is KGU in Honolulu, Hawaii.
I am speaking from the roof of
the Advertiser
Publishing Company building.
We have witnessed this morning a
distant view
of a brief full battle of Pearl
Harbor and
a severe bombing of Pearl Harbor
by enemy
planes, undoubtedly Japanese.
The city of Honolulu has also
been attacked,
and considerable damage done.
This battle has been going on
for nearly three
hours.
One of the bombs dropped within
50 feet of
KGU tower.
It is no joke.
It is a real war.
The public of Honolulu has been
advised to
keep in their homes and await
results from
the Army and Navy.
There has been fierce fighting
going on in
the air and on the sea.
The heavy shooting seems to be
-- one, two,
three, four.
Just a moment.
We'll interrupt here.
We cannot estimate yet how much
damage has
been done, but it has been a
very severe attack.
We cannot estimate yet how much
damage has
been done, but it has been a
very severe attack.
And the Navy and Army appear now
to have the
air and the sea under control.
And the Navy and Army appear now
to have the
air and the sea under control.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It certainly
brings us back
to that terrible day.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes, I wonder
what it was
like to hear that on the radio
everywhere.
I'm sure it was one of those
moments where
everyone knew exactly, if they
were alive
at that point to hear it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Seventy-five
years ago this
day.
And on the "NewsHour" online
right now, we
share letters to our late
colleague Gwen Ifill
from women journalists of color
about what
she meant to them as a personal
friend and
mentor and as a pioneering icon.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tune in later
tonight.
On "Charlie Rose," author
Michael Lewis explores
how we make decisions in "The
Undoing Project."
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Thursday, we start a special
series following
three women on a mission to
serve in newly
opened combat roles in the
Marines.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.